# Visualize data in Kibana

In this excercise you will learn how to explore and visualize your data in Kibana.

1. Go to [http://localhost:5601/app/kibana#/settings/indices](http://localhost:5601/app/kibana#/settings/indices) and add the index pattern "lapd-*" 
and choose @timestamp as your time field. This tells elasticsearch which field you will be using to 
sort the events.

2. We'll start by exploring the Discover tab. This tab will let you get more acquainted with your data.

	*Excercise 2.1.* Set an absolute time range that starts 1st december 2013 and ends 1st january 2016
	
	*Excercise 2.2.* Make a table that shows the following fields: Time,crime_description,area_name,area_code,address 

	*Excercise 2.3.* Filter the previous table by choosing all events with crime_description: "VEHICLE - STOLEN"
		but not in area_name: "Mission"

3. We move on to the Visualization tab. We'll learn how to aggregate our data. In all coming excersices, you have to save your visualizations when you are done. 
Give them a name that lets you remember what you did with it. For example, pieChart_top10_crime_description, metric_totalCriminalEvents, etc.

	*Excericse 3.1.* Use the Metric visualization to make a counter of the events. It should show "criminal events" in the legend. 

	*Excercise 3.2.* Use the Markdown widget to show a simple description of the data you are visualizing. 

	*Excercise 3.3.* Use the Pie Chart, with Terms aggregation, to show the top 10  crime_description categories.
		Did it show what you expected? The reason why this fails is that you are using an analyzed field, that is, a field that
		is tokenized and used for search. Change to crime_description.raw. Did you get what you expected now? Why?
		Make similar charts for area_name, address, area_code, and crime_code.

	*Excercise 3.4.* Use the Pie Chart, Significant Terms aggregation on the field crime_description.raw. Why is this different than the Terms aggregation?
	Read more: [search-aggregations-bucket-significantterms-aggregation.html](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations-bucket-significantterms-aggregation.html)

	*Excersice 3.5.* Use the Vertical Line Bar to make a visualization of the top 5 crime_description per time. Use the split bar sub-buckets.

	*Excercise 3.6.* Use the Line Chart to make a visualization comparing the events having a ASSAULT in the crime_description against the rest.
	Hint: Use the "Split Lines" sub-buccket with the Filter aggregation. The first filter should have "crime_description: ASSAULT" and the second
	filter should have "NOT (crime_description: ASSAULT)".
	The Area Chart is similar to this visualization. Go an play a bit with it.
	
	*Excercise 3.7.* Use the Tile Map visualization to show the events over a map. Go to Options and play with the different map types.

4.  We continue to the Dashboard tab. By using the pluss-button, you can add all you previous visualizations into a dashboard. Add everything you have made so far,
move the visualizations around, resize them until you are satisfied with the results.

	*Excercise 4.1.* Click on the pie chart with the crime descriptions. Look how all the data gets filtrated automatically by that type of crimes.

	*Excercise 4.2.* Make a rectangle in the Tile Map. Your data gets filtrated by location also.

	*Excercise 4.3.* Look at the line chart. Try to zoom in a certain time window. Look at how your data gets filtrated by that time automatically.

5. Load the fasit visualizations by going to *Settings > Objects > Import* and choose lapd_visualization_objects.json in the data folder. Open the *fasit_lapd* and *fasit_ts_lapd* dashboards. 
Click on the definition of the visualizations in order to understand what has been done.

6. If time allows, we look at *fasit_ts_lapd* and explain the simple anomaly detector dashboard with Timelion.