# Grok filter plugin

Documentation: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filter-grok.html
You will learn how to structure data from inputs using regular expressions.

Start with 1.conf and proceed with the exercises under in the given order.
If you need help, you can take a peek at 1.fasit.conf or ask the speakers.
Try to run logstash at each completed step to make sure you are on the right track.
Remember to delete the file at sincedb_path between runs, ensuring logstash processes the whole input file again.

1. Have a look at the access.mini.log file. Replace <path to elk-workshop> with the path to the elk-workshop repository. Try running logstash:
```
> ..\..\..\logstash-2.1.1\bin\logstash agent -f 1.conf
$ ../../../logstash.2.1.1/bin/logstash agent -f 1.conf
```
Notice the value of the field *test* in the outputs.

2. If you look at the *match* option of the grok filter, this may not look like any regular expression you've seen before. DATA is a pre-defined pattern for grok regular expressions equivalent to `".*?"` (without the quotes). The :test within the pattern tells grok what field to bind the match to. As a whole, it is equivalent to the regular expression `"(?<test>.*?) "`.

3. Browse to http://grokconstructor.appspot.com/do/construction

Copy and paste a few lines of logs from the data/access.mini.log file and press Go. You will notice that the first pattern in the list matches everything: `COMBINEDAPACHELOG`. We will use this for the later exercises, but for now, you should spend a few minutes familiarizing yourself with the constructor.

You will find the Apache log format documented at:  https://httpd.apache.org/docs/1.3/logs.html#common

Build a pattern that will match and capture the following fields:
- Client IP/host name
- Date and time
- HTTP method
- Path part of requested URL
- HTTP status code

Try running logstash again with the updated configuration, and test it along the way if you'd like. Remember to delete the sincedb file before each run.
